mind your decisions I'm presh to occur
in square ABCD draw lines B e BF and Fe
as shown if the areas of the triangles
are three four and five what is the area
of triangle BEF this is adapted from a
tweet by the National Museum of
mathematics for a little bit more of a
challenge consider the general case
where ABCD is a rectangle and the areas
are XY and Z what is the area of BEF in
terms of XY and Z this comes from a
tweet by Mustafa Kemal Inga pause the
video if you'd like to give this problem
a try and when you're ready keep
watching to learn how to solve this
problem
[Music]
we'll go ahead and tackle the general
case and we'll prove the following
formula to do that we'll work step by
step first consider this triangle
suppose one side of the rectangle is a
and the other side of the triangle is C
because the triangle has an area of why
a C over 2 is equal to Y this means C is
equal to 2y over a now suppose the other
side of the rectangle is B the remaining
distance on this side will be B minus 2y
over a now consider the triangle which
has an area of X if its other side is
equal to D we can solve that BD over 2
is equal to X this means D is equal to
2x over B the other distance on this
side will be a minus 2x over B we have
the final triangle with an area of Z so
we can set that 1/2 times each of its
legs will be equal to the area of Z will
then focus on this equation first we'll
multiply both sides by 2 and then we'll
distribute this binomial now it looks
pretty complicated but it's going to
simplify the first thing we'll do is
we'll subtract 2z from both sides
well then factor a 2 from these three
terms now let's multiply both sides by
the quantity a B on the right hand side
this will vanish because 0 times a b is
equal to 0
on the left hand side we'll distribute
it over three different terms the first
term becomes a B the quantity squared
the second term we add a factor of a B
and the third term the denominator of a
B will vanish this equation looks
complicated but it's actually something
you should be able to solve this is
going to be a quadratic equation in the
variable a B so we can use the quadratic
formula to solve it a B will be equal to
the opposite of the coefficient on a B
plus or minus the
all over - we then will simplify the
square root by factoring out a 2 and
then these factors of 2 will all cancel
out so a B will be equal to X plus y
plus Z plus or minus the following
square root now it looks like we have
two choices plus or minus but here's how
we can rule out one of the choices
recall that a B is equal to the area of
the rectangle and that has to be larger
than X plus y plus Z because those are
the areas of those three triangles since
a B is larger than X plus y plus Z we
will need the positive square root we
don't want to subtract anything from it
the area is going to be larger than the
areas of the three triangles so we
eliminate the negative term and we have
an answer for what a B is equal to now
go back to the original diagram the
entire area of the rectangle is a B so a
B will be equal to the entire area but
it's also going to be equal to the sum
of the areas of these triangles so it's
also equal to X plus y plus C plus W we
have two different equations for a B
therefore we must have the following two
terms are equal this means W is equal to
the square root of the quantity X plus y
plus Z squared minus 4xy and that's
going to be the formula we use so go
back to the original problem where we
have three four and five we can easily
solve for W by substituting in and then
simplifying W is equal to four times the
square root of six which is
approximately equal to nine point eight
oh and that's our answer I think it's
incredible that there's such a simple
formula to solve all problems of this
type thanks for making mind your
decisions one of the best channels on
YouTube as always thanks for watching
and thanks for your support
[Music]
you